"MINI",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of extracting raw metals and gems from the earth. Metals and gems tend to be found more often in mountainous regions, but may be found elsewhere as well. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE iron. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"MINI",2,"No skill report."
"MINI",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE mithril. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains mithril. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Mine, Arcane Mine."
"MINI",4,"No skill report."
"MINI",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE admantium. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains admantium."
"LUMB",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of various wood production. Woods are more often found in forests, but may also be found elsewhere. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE wood. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"LUMB",2,"No skill report."
"LUMB",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE ironwood. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains ironwood. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Timber Yard, Forest Preserve."
"LUMB",4,"No skill report."
"LUMB",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE yew. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains yew. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Sacred Grove."
"QUAR",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of various stone production. Mountains are the main producers of stone, but it may be found in other regions as well. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE stone. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"QUAR",2,"No skill report."
"QUAR",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE rootstone. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains rootstone. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Quarry, Mystic Quarry."
"QUAR",4,"No skill report."
"QUAR",5,"No skill report."
"HUNT",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of animal hide production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE furs. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"HUNT",2,"No skill report."
"HUNT",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE floater hides. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains floater hides."
"HUNT",4,"No skill report."
"HUNT",5,"No skill report."
"FISH",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of fish production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE fish.  This skill costs 10 silver to study."
"FISH",2,"No skill report."
"FISH",3,"No skill report."
"FISH",4,"No skill report."
"FISH",5,"No skill report."
"HERB",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of herb production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE herbs, lassoes, and bags. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"HERB",2,"No skill report."
"HERB",3,"No skill report."
"HERB",4,"No skill report."
"HERB",5,"No skill report."
"HORS",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of horse production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE horses.  This skill costs 10 silver to study."
"HORS",2,"No skill report."
"HORS",3,"No skill report."
"HORS",4,"No skill report."
"HORS",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE winged horses. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains winged horses."
"WEAP",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of weapon construction and production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE swords, crossbows, longbows, and javelins. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"WEAP",2,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE battle axes and sabres."
"WEAP",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE mithril swords."
"WEAP",4,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE magic crossbows."
"WEAP",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE double bows."
"ARMO",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of armor construction and production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE chain armor, leather armor, and cloth armor. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"ARMO",2,"No skill report."
"ARMO",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE plate armor."
"ARMO",4,"No skill report."
"ARMO",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE mithril armor."
"CARP",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of wood based item production other than for use as weapons. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE wagons, picks, spears, axes, hammers, spinning wheels, and wooden shields. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"CARP",2,"No skill report."
"CARP",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE magic wagons and plate shields."
"CARP",4,"No skill report."
"CARP",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE gliders, mithril shields, and catapults."
"BUIL",1,"This skill deals with the construction of fortifications, roads and other buildings, except for most trade structures. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Tower, Fort, Road N, Road NW, Road NE, Road SW, Road SE, Road S, Stockade. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"BUIL",2,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Castle."
"BUIL",3,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Citadel, Inn, Temple."
"BUIL",4,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Magical Fortress."
"BUIL",5,"No skill report."
"SHIP",1,"This skill deals with the constructions of all types of ships. A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Longboat. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"SHIP",2,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Clipper."
"SHIP",3,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Galleon."
"SHIP",4,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Armored Galleon."
"SHIP",5,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Balloon."
"ENTE",1,"A unit with this skill may use the ENTERTAIN order to generate funds. The amount of silver gained will be 20 per man, times the level of the entertainers. This amount is limited by the region that the unit is in. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"ENTE",2,"No skill report."
"ENTE",3,"No skill report."
"ENTE",4,"No skill report."
"ENTE",5,"No skill report."
"TACT",1,"Tactics allows the unit, and all allies, to gain a free round of attacks during battle. The army with the highest level tactician in a battle will receive this free round; if the highest levels are equal, no free round is awarded. Only one free round total will be awarded for any reason. This skill costs 200 silver per month of study."
"TACT",2,"No skill report."
"TACT",3,"No skill report."
"TACT",4,"No skill report."
"TACT",5,"No skill report."
"COMB",1,"This skill gives the unit a bonus in hand to hand combat. Also, a unit with this skill may TAX or PILLAGE. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"COMB",2,"No skill report."
"COMB",3,"No skill report."
"COMB",4,"No skill report."
"COMB",5,"No skill report."
"RIDI",1,"A unit with this skill, if possessing a mount, may gain a bonus in combat, if the battle is in a location where that mount may be utilized and if the skill of the rider is sufficient to control that mount. The bonus gained can vary with the mount, the riders skill, and the terrain. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"RIDI",2,"No skill report."
"RIDI",3,"No skill report."
"RIDI",4,"No skill report."
"RIDI",5,"No skill report."
"XBOW",1,"A unit with this skill may use a crossbow or other bow derived from one, either in battle, or to TAX or PILLAGE a region. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"XBOW",2,"No skill report."
"XBOW",3,"No skill report."
"XBOW",4,"No skill report."
"XBOW",5,"No skill report."
"LBOW",1,"A unit with this skill may use a longbow or other bow derived from one, either in battle, or to TAX or PILLAGE a region. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"LBOW",2,"No skill report."
"LBOW",3,"No skill report."
"LBOW",4,"No skill report."
"LBOW",5,"No skill report."
"STEA",1,"A unit with this skill is concealed from being seen, except by units with an Observation skill greater than or equal to the stealthy unit's Stealth level. This skill costs 50 silver per month of study."
"STEA",2,"No skill report."
"STEA",3,"No skill report."
"STEA",4,"No skill report."
"STEA",5,"No skill report."
"OBSE",1,"A unit with this skill can see stealthy units or monsters whose stealth rating is less than or equal to the observing unit's Observation level. The unit can also determine the faction owning a unit, provided its Observation level is higher than the other unit's Stealth level. This skill costs 50 silver per month of study."
"OBSE",2,"No skill report."
"OBSE",3,"No skill report."
"OBSE",4,"No skill report."
"OBSE",5,"No skill report."
"HEAL",1,"A unit with this skill is able to heal units hurt in battle. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"HEAL",2,"No skill report."
"HEAL",3,"No skill report."
"HEAL",4,"No skill report."
"HEAL",5,"No skill report."
"SAIL",1,"A unit with this skill may use the SAIL order to sail ships. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"SAIL",2,"No skill report."
"SAIL",3,"No skill report."
"SAIL",4,"No skill report."
"SAIL",5,"No skill report."
"FARM",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of grain production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE grain. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"FARM",2,"No skill report."
"FARM",3,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Farm."
"FARM",4,"No skill report."
"FARM",5,"No skill report."
"RANC",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of livestock production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE livestock. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"RANC",2,"No skill report."
"RANC",3,"A unit with this skill may BUILD the following structures: Ranch."
"RANC",4,"No skill report."
"RANC",5,"No skill report."
"FORC",1,"The Force skill is not directly useful to a mage, but is rather one of the Foundation skills on which other magical skills are based. The Force skill determines the power of the magical energy that a mage is able to use. Note that a Force skill level of 0 does not indicate that a mage cannot use magical energy, but rather can only perform magical acts that do not require great amounts of power. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"FORC",2,"No skill report."
"FORC",3,"No skill report."
"FORC",4,"No skill report."
"FORC",5,"No skill report."
"PATT",1,"The Pattern skill is not directly useful to a mage, but is rather one of the Foundation skills on which other magical skills are based. A mage's Pattern skill indicates the ability to handle complex magical patterns, and is important for complicated tasks such as healing and controlling nature. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"PATT",2,"No skill report."
"PATT",3,"No skill report."
"PATT",4,"No skill report."
"PATT",5,"No skill report."
"SPIR",1,"The Spirit skill is not directly useful to a mage, but is rather one of the Foundation skills on which other magical skills are based. Spirit skill indicates the mage's ability to control and affect magic and other powers beyond the material world. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"SPIR",2,"No skill report."
"SPIR",3,"No skill report."
"SPIR",4,"No skill report."
"SPIR",5,"No skill report."
"FIRE",1,"A mage with this skill can cast a fireball in battle. This ability does between 2 and 10 times the skill level of the mage energy attacks. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires force [FORC] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"FIRE",2,"No skill report."
"FIRE",3,"No skill report."
"FIRE",4,"No skill report."
"FIRE",5,"No skill report."
"EQUA",1,"A mage with this skill may create violent Earthquakes in battle. Earthquakes are dangerous only to those enemies within a building. An Earthquake will inflict between 2 and the mage's Earthquake skill level times 100 attacks, at a skill level equal to the mage's Earthquake skill; these attacks will only be directed against enemies within a building. Note that the defense bonus that normally applies to units within a building does not apply during an Earthquake strike. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires force 1, pattern 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"EQUA",2,"No skill report."
"EQUA",3,"No skill report."
"EQUA",4,"No skill report."
"EQUA",5,"No skill report."
"FSHI",1,"A mage with this skill may cast a Force Shield in combat. This shield will be effective against all ranged attacks against the mage's army, at a level equal to the mage's skill level. The mage himself will gain a defensive bonus against normal combat attacks, equal to his skill. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires force 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"FSHI",2,"No skill report."
"FSHI",3,"No skill report."
"FSHI",4,"No skill report."
"FSHI",5,"No skill report."
"ESHI",1,"A mage with this skill may cast an Energy Shield in combat. This shield will be effective against all Energy attacks against the mage's army, at a level equal to the mage's skill level. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires force 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"ESHI",2,"No skill report."
"ESHI",3,"No skill report."
"ESHI",4,"No skill report."
"ESHI",5,"No skill report."
"SSHI",1,"A mage with this skill may cast a Spirit Shield in combat. This shield will be effective against all Spirit attacks against the mage's army, at a level equal to the mage's skill level. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires spirit 1, force 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SSHI",2,"No skill report."
"SSHI",3,"No skill report."
"SSHI",4,"No skill report."
"SSHI",5,"No skill report."
"MHEA",1,"This skill enables the mage to magically heal units after battle. A mage at this level can heal up to 10 casualties, with a 50 percent rate of success. No order is necessary to use this spell, it will be used automatically when the mage is involved in battle. This skill requires pattern 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"MHEA",2,"No skill report."
"MHEA",3,"A mage at this level of skill can work greater wonders of healing with his new found powers; he may heal up to 25 casualties, with a success rate of 75 percent."
"MHEA",4,"No skill report."
"MHEA",5,"A mage at this skill level can bring soldiers back from near death; he may heal up to 100 casualties, with a 90 percent rate of success."
"GATE",1,"Gate Lore is the art of detecting and using magical Gates, which are spread through the world. The Gates are numbered in order, but spread out randomly, so there is no correlation between the Gate number and the Gate's location. A mage with skill 1 in Gate Lore can see a Gate if one exists in the same region as the mage. This detection is automatic; the Gate will appear in the region report. A mage with skill 1 in Gate Lore may also jump through a Gate into another region on the same level containing a gate, selected at random. To use Gate Lore in this manner, use the syntax CAST Gate_Lore RANDOM UNITS <unit> ... UNITS is followed by a list of units to follow the mage through the Gate (the mage always jumps through the Gate). At level 1, the mage may carry 15 weight units through the Gate (including the weight of the mage). This skill requires pattern [PATT] 1, and spirit [SPIR] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"GATE",2,"A mage with Gate Lore skill 2 can detect Gates in adjacent regions. The mage should use the syntax CAST Gate_Lore DETECT in order to detect these nearby Gates. Also, at level 2 Gate Lore, the mage may carry 100 weight units through a Gate when doing a random jump."
"GATE",3,"A mage with Gate Lore skill 3 and higher can step through a Gate into another region containing a specific Gate. To use this spell, use the syntax CAST Gate_Lore GATE <number> UNITS <unit> ... <number> specifies the Gate that the mage will jump to. UNITS is followed by a list of units to follow the mage through the gate (the mage always jumps through the gate). At level 3, the mage may carry 15 weight units through the Gate (including the mage). Also, a level 3 or higher mage doing a random gate jump may carry 1000 weight units through the Gate."
"GATE",4,"A mage with Gate Lore skill 4 may carry 100 weight units through a Gate."
"GATE",5,"A mage with Gate Lore skill 5 may carry 1000 weight units through a Gate."
"FARS",1,"A mage with this skill may obtain region reports on distant regions. The report will be as if the mage was in the distant region himself. This skill only works on the surface of the world. The mage may view regions that are within the mage's skill level squared times 4 regions of the mage's current location. To use this skill, CAST Farsight REGION <x> <y>, where <x> and <y> are the coordinates of the region that you wish to view. Note that Farsight does not work in conjunction with other skills or spells; the mage can only rely on his normal facilities while casting Farsight. This skill requires pattern 1, spirit 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"FARS",2,"No skill report."
"FARS",3,"No skill report."
"FARS",4,"No skill report."
"FARS",5,"No skill report."
"TELE",1,"A mage with this skill may teleport himself acrossgreat distances, even without the use of a gate. This skill may only be used on the surface. The mage may teleport up to 15 weight units per skill level to any region that is within the mage's skill level squared times 2 regions of the mage's current location. The syntax to use this skill is CAST Teleportation REGION <x> <y>. <x> and <y> are the coordinates of the region to teleport to. This skill requires gate lore 1, farsight 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"TELE",2,"No skill report."
"TELE",3,"No skill report."
"TELE",4,"No skill report."
"TELE",5,"No skill report."
"PORT",1,"A mage with the Portal Lore skill may, with the aid of another mage, make a temporary Gate between two regions, and send units from one region to another. In order to do this, both mages (the caster, and the target mage) must have Portals, and the caster must be trained in Portal Lore. The caster may teleport units weighing up to 50 weight units times his skill level, to the target mage's region, provided the target region is no farther than 2 times the caster's skill level squared regions away. To use this skill, CAST Portal_Lore <target> UNITS <unit> ..., where <target> is the unit number of the target mage, and <unit> is a list of units to be teleported (the casting mage may teleport himself, if he so desires). This skill requires gate lore 3, farsight 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"PORT",2,"No skill report."
"PORT",3,"No skill report."
"PORT",4,"No skill report."
"PORT",5,"No skill report."
"MIND",1,"A mage with Mind Reading skill 1 may cast the spell and determine the faction affiliation of any unit he can see. To use the spell in this manner, CAST Mind_Reading <unit>, where <unit> is the target unit. This skill requires pattern 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"MIND",2,"No skill report."
"MIND",3,"A mage with Mind Reading skill 3 will automatically determine the faction affiliation of any unit he can see. Usage of this skill is automatic, and no order is needed to use it."
"MIND",4,"No skill report."
"MIND",5,"A mage with Mind Reading skill 5 can get a full unit report on any unit he can see. To use this skill, CAST Mind_Reading <unit> where <unit> is the target unit."
"WEAT",1,"Weather Lore is the magic of the weather; the skill Weather Lore itself has no use, except to allow further study into more powerful areas of magic. A mage with Weather Lore skill will perceive the use of Weather Lore by any other mage in the same region. This skill requires force 1, pattern 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"WEAT",2,"No skill report."
"WEAT",3,"No skill report."
"WEAT",4,"No skill report."
"WEAT",5,"No skill report."
"SWIN",1,"A mage with knowledge of Summon Wind can summon up the powers of the wind to aid him in sea or air travel. Usage of this spell is automatic. At level 1, if the mage is in a Longboat, that ship will get 2 extra movement points. If the mage is flying, he will receive 2 extra movement points. This skill requires weather lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SWIN",2,"With level 2 Summon Wind, any ship of Clipper size or smaller that the mage is inside will receive a 2 movement point bonus."
"SWIN",3,"At level 3 of Summon Wind, any ship the mage is in will receive a 2 movement point bonus. Note that study of Summon Wind beyond level 3 does not yield any further powers."
"SWIN",4,"No skill report."
"SWIN",5,"No skill report."
"SSTO",1,"A mage with Summon Storm can summon a storm against enemy forces, reducing their combat effectiveness. Each round, the storm will affect from 2 to mage's Summon Storm level times 50 men, and will reduce their effective Combat skill by 2 for the duration of the battle. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires weather lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SSTO",2,"No skill report."
"SSTO",3,"No skill report."
"SSTO",4,"No skill report."
"SSTO",5,"No skill report."
"STOR",1,"A mage with Summon Tornado can summon a mighty tornado to use against enemy forces in battle. A tornado issues a number of Weather attacks from 2 to the mage's Summon Tornado level times 50, of skill level equal to the mage's level. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires weather lore 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"STOR",2,"No skill report."
"STOR",3,"No skill report."
"STOR",4,"No skill report."
"STOR",5,"No skill report."
"CALL",1,"The Call Lightning spell is a combat spell, allowing the mage to summon mighty blasts of lightning from the sky against his foes. A lightning blast deals a number of attacks from 4 to the mage's skill level times 120, of skill level equal to the mage's level. This spell is a bit different than most combat spells, in that half of the attacks are treated as Weather attacks, and the other half as Energy attacks. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires weather lore 5 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CALL",2,"No skill report."
"CALL",3,"No skill report."
"CALL",4,"No skill report."
"CALL",5,"No skill report."
"CLEA",1,"The Clear Skies spell has two uses. When cast using the CAST order, it causes the region to have good weather for the entire month; movement is at the normal rate (even if it is winter) and the economic production of the region is improved for a month (this improvement of the economy will actually take effect during the turn after the spell is cast). To use the spell in this fashion, CAST Clear_Skies; no arguments are necessary. The other use of the spell is in combat, as a defense against weather attacks acting a shield of level equal to the mage's Clear Skies skill. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires weather lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CLEA",2,"No skill report."
"CLEA",3,"No skill report."
"CLEA",4,"No skill report."
"CLEA",5,"No skill report."
"EART",1,"Earth Lore is the study of nature, plants, and animals. A mage with knowledge of Earth Lore can use his knowledge of nature to aid local farmers, raising money for himself, and aiding the production of grain or livestock in the region. To use the spell, CAST Earth_Lore; the mage will receive an amount of money based on his level, and the economy of the region. Also, a mage with knowledge of Earth Lore will detect the use of Earth Lore by any other mage in the same region. This skill requires pattern [PATT] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"EART",2,"No skill report."
"EART",3,"No skill report."
"EART",4,"No skill report."
"EART",5,"No skill report."
"WOLF",1,"A mage with Wolf Lore skill may summon wolves, who will fight for him in combat. A mage may summon a number of wolves equal to his skill level, and control a total number of his skill level squared times 4 wolves; the wolves will be placed in the mages inventory. Note, however, that wolves may only be summoned in mountain and forest regions. To summon wolves, the mage should issue the order CAST Wolf_Lore. A unit with this skill may create wolves via magic. This skill requires earth lore [EART] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"WOLF",2,"No skill report."
"WOLF",3,"No skill report."
"WOLF",4,"No skill report."
"WOLF",5,"No skill report."
"BIRD",1,"A mage with Bird Lore may control the birds of the sky. At skill level 1, the mage can control small birds, sending them to an adjacent region to obtain a report on that region. (This skill only works on the surface of the world, as there are no birds elsewhere). To use this skill, CAST Bird_Lore DIRECTION <dir>, where <dir> is the direction the mage wishes the birds to report on. This skill requires earth lore [EART] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"BIRD",2,"No skill report."
"BIRD",3,"A mage with Bird Lore 3 can summon eagles to join him, who will aid him in combat, and provide for flying transportation. A mage may summon a number of eagles equal to his skill level minus 2, squared; the eagles will appear in his inventory. To summon an eagle, issue the order CAST Bird_Lore EAGLE. A unit with this skill may create eagles via magic."
"BIRD",4,"No skill report."
"BIRD",5,"No skill report."
"DRAG",1,"A mage with Dragon Lore skill can summon dragons to join him, to aid in battle, and provide flying transportation. A mage at level 1 has a low chance of successfully summoning a dragon, gradually increasing until at level 5 he may summon one dragon per turn; the total number of dragons that a mage may control at one time is equal to his skill level. To attempt to summon a dragon, CAST Dragon_Lore. A unit with this skill may create dragons via magic. This skill requires bird lore [BIRD] 3 to begin to study. This skill costs 200 silver per month of study."
"DRAG",2,"No skill report."
"DRAG",3,"No skill report."
"DRAG",4,"No skill report."
"DRAG",5,"No skill report."
"NECR",1,"Necromancy is the magic of death; a mage versed in Necromancy may raise and control the dead, and turn the powers of death to his own nefarious purposes. The Necromancy skill does not have any direct application, but is required to study the more powerful Necromantic skills. A mage with knowledge of Necromancy will detect the use of Necromancy by any other mage in the same region. This skill requires force 1, spirit 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"NECR",2,"No skill report."
"NECR",3,"No skill report."
"NECR",4,"No skill report."
"NECR",5,"No skill report."
"SUSK",1,"A mage with the Summon Skeletons skill may summon skeletons into his inventory, to aid him in battle. Skeletons may be given to other units, as they follow instructions mindlessly; however, they have a 10 percent chance of decaying each turn. A mage can summon skeletons at an average rate of 40 percent times his level squared. To use the spell, use the order CAST Summon_Skeletons, and the mage will summon as many skeletons as he is able. A unit with this skill may create skeletons via magic. This skill requires necromancy 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SUSK",2,"No skill report."
"SUSK",3,"No skill report."
"SUSK",4,"No skill report."
"SUSK",5,"No skill report."
"RAIS",1,"A mage with the Raise Undead skill may summon undead into his inventory, to aid him in battle. Undead may be given to other units, as they follow instructions mindlessly; however, they have a 10 percent chance of decaying each turn. A mage can summon undead at an average rate of 10 percent times his level squared. To use the spell, use the order CAST Raise_Undead and the mage will summon as many undead as he is able. A unit with this skill may create undead via magic. This skill requires necromancy 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"RAIS",2,"No skill report."
"RAIS",3,"No skill report."
"RAIS",4,"No skill report."
"RAIS",5,"No skill report."
"SULI",1,"A mage with the Summon Lich skill may summon a lich into his inventory, to aid him in battle. Liches may be given to other units, as they follow instructions mindlessly; however, they have a 10 percent chance of decaying each turn. A mage has a 2 percent times his level squared chance of summoning a lich; to summon a lich, use the order CAST Summon_Lich. A unit with this skill may create liches via magic. This skill requires necromancy 5 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SULI",2,"No skill report."
"SULI",3,"No skill report."
"SULI",4,"No skill report."
"SULI",5,"No skill report."
"FEAR",1,"Create Aura of Fear is a combat spell; a mage who casts it will project an aura of fear on his enemies, reducing their combat effectiveness by 2. A mage with this skill can strike fear into the hearts of 2 to his skill level times 20 men; note that this spell does not affect any type of creature. The attacks are Spirit attacks, and may be blocked by a Spirit shield. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires necromancy 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"FEAR",2,"No skill report."
"FEAR",3,"No skill report."
"FEAR",4,"No skill report."
"FEAR",5,"No skill report."
"SBLA",1,"This spell allows the mage to summon the black wind, a supernatural wind that destroys life. A mage who casts this spell in combat will deal from 2 to his skill level times 200 Spirit attacks, at a level equal to the mage's skill level. However, the black wind has no effect on undead or demons. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires necromancy 5 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SBLA",2,"No skill report."
"SBLA",3,"No skill report."
"SBLA",4,"No skill report."
"SBLA",5,"No skill report."
"BUND",1,"A mage with the Banish Undead skill can banish undead in combat. The mage will deal from 2 to his skill level times 50 attacks on undead, with no defense against these attacks. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires necromancy 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"BUND",2,"No skill report."
"BUND",3,"No skill report."
"BUND",4,"No skill report."
"BUND",5,"No skill report."
"DEMO",1,"Demon Lore is the art of summoning and controlling demons. The Demon Lore skill does not give the mage any direct skills, but is required to study further into the Demonic arts. A mage with knowledge of Demon Lore will detect the use of Demon Lore by any other mage in the same region. This skill requires force [FORC] 1, and spirit [SPIR] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 200 silver per month of study."
"DEMO",2,"No skill report."
"DEMO",3,"No skill report."
"DEMO",4,"No skill report."
"DEMO",5,"No skill report."
"SUIM",1,"A mage with the Summon Imps skill may summon imps into his inventory, to aid him in combat. A mage may summon one imp per skill level; however, the imps have a chance of breaking free of the mage's control at the end of each turn. This chance is based on the number of imps in the mage's control; if the mage has his skill level squared times 4 imps, the chance is 5 percent; this chance goes up or down quickly if the mage controls more or fewer imps. To use this spell, the mage should issue the order CAST Summon_Imps, and the mage will summon as many imps as he is able. A unit with this skill may create imps via magic. This skill requires demon lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SUIM",2,"No skill report."
"SUIM",3,"No skill report."
"SUIM",4,"No skill report."
"SUIM",5,"No skill report."
"SUDE",1,"A mage with the Summon Demon skill may summon demons into his inventory, to aid him in combat. A mage may summon one demon each turn; however, the demons have a chance of breaking free of the mage's control at the end of each turn. This chance is based on the number of demons in the mage's control; if the mage has a number of demons equal to his skill level squared, the chance is 5 percent; this chance goes up or down quickly if the mage controls more or fewer demons. To use this spell, the mage should issue the order CAST Summon_Demon. A unit with this skill may create demons via magic. This skill requires summon imps 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SUDE",2,"No skill report."
"SUDE",3,"No skill report."
"SUDE",4,"No skill report."
"SUDE",5,"No skill report."
"SUBA",1,"A mage with the Summon Balrog skill may summon a balrog into his inventory, to aid him in combat. A mage has a 20 percent times his skill level chance of summoning a balrog, but may only control one balrog at a time. As with other demons, the balrog has a chance of breaking free of the mage's control at the end of each turn. This chance is equal to 1 over 4 times the mage's skill level squared (or, from 1 over 4 at level 1, to 1 over 100 at level 5). To use this spell, the mage should issue the order CAST Summon_Balrog. A unit with this skill may create balrogs via magic. This skill requires summon demon 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"SUBA",2,"No skill report."
"SUBA",3,"No skill report."
"SUBA",4,"No skill report."
"SUBA",5,"No skill report."
"BDEM",1,"A mage with the Banish Demons skill can banish demons in combat. The mage will deal from 2 to his skill level times 50 attacks on demons, with no defense against these attacks. In order to use this spell in combat, the mage should use the COMBAT order to set it as his combat spell. This skill requires demon lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"BDEM",2,"No skill report."
"BDEM",3,"No skill report."
"BDEM",4,"No skill report."
"BDEM",5,"No skill report."
"ILLU",1,"Illusion is the magic of creating images of things that do not actually exist. The Illusion skill does not have any direct applications, but is required for further study of Illusionary magic. A mage with knowledge of the Illusion skill will detect the use of Illusion by any other mage in the same region. This skill requires force [FORC] 1, and pattern [PATT] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"ILLU",2,"No skill report."
"ILLU",3,"No skill report."
"ILLU",4,"No skill report."
"ILLU",5,"No skill report."
"INVI",1,"The Invisibility skill allows a mage to render other units nearly invisible to other factions, giving them a +3 bonus to Stealth. This invisibility will last until the next Magic round. To cast this spell, use the order CAST Invisibility UNITS <unit> ..., where <unit> is a list of the units that the mage wishes to render invisible. A mage may render invisible a number of men or creatures equal to his skill level squared. This skill requires illusion [ILLU] 3 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"INVI",2,"No skill report."
"INVI",3,"No skill report."
"INVI",4,"No skill report."
"INVI",5,"No skill report."
"TRUE",1,"A mage with the True Seeing spell can see illusions for what they really are. Whether or not the mage can see through the illusion depends on his True Seeing skill being higher that the Illusion skill of the mage casting the illusion. This spell does not require any order to use; it is used automatically.In addition, a mage with the True Seeing skill receives a bonus to his Observation skill equal to his True Seeing skill divided by 2, rounded up. This skill requires illusion [ILLU] 3 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"TRUE",2,"No skill report."
"TRUE",3,"No skill report."
"TRUE",4,"No skill report."
"TRUE",5,"No skill report."
"ARTI",1,"Artifact Lore is one of the most advanced forms of magic; in general, creation of an artifact requires both Artifact Lore, and the appropriate skill for the item being created. A mage with knowledge of the Artifact Lore skill will detect the use of Artifact Lore by any other mage in the region. This skill requires force [FORC] 1, pattern [PATT] 1, and spirit [SPIR] 1 to begin to study. This skill costs 100 silver per month of study."
"ARTI",2,"No skill report."
"ARTI",3,"No skill report."
"ARTI",4,"No skill report."
"ARTI",5,"No skill report."
"CRRI",1,"A mage with the Create Ring of Invisibility skill may create a Ring of Invisibility, which grants a 3 bonus to a unit's effective Stealth (note that a unit must possess one ring for each man to gain this bonus). A Ring of Invisibility has one limitation; a unit possessing a ring cannot assassinate, nor steal from, a unit with an Amulet of True Seeing. A mage has a 20 percent times his level chance to create a Ring of Invisibility. To use this spell, the mage should CAST Create_Ring_of_Invisibility. A unit with this skill may create rings of invisibility via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 3, invisibility 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRRI",2,"No skill report."
"CRRI",3,"No skill report."
"CRRI",4,"No skill report."
"CRRI",5,"No skill report."
"CRCL",1,"A mage with the Create Cloak of Invulnerability skill may create a Cloak of Invulnerability. A mage has a 20 percent times his level chance to create a Cloak of Invulnerability. To use this spell, the mage should CAST Create_Cloak_of_Invulnerability. A unit with this skill may create cloaks of invulnerability via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 4, force shield 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRCL",2,"No skill report."
"CRCL",3,"No skill report."
"CRCL",4,"No skill report."
"CRCL",5,"No skill report."
"CRSF",1,"A mage with the Create Staff of Fire skill may create a Staff of Fire. A Staff of Fire allows any mage to throw fireballs in combat as if he had a Fire skill of 3. A mage has a 20 percent times his level chance to create a Staff of Fire. To use this spell, CAST Create_Staff_of_Fire. A unit with this skill may create staves of fire via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 3, fire 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRSF",2,"No skill report."
"CRSF",3,"No skill report."
"CRSF",4,"No skill report."
"CRSF",5,"No skill report."
"CRSL",1,"A mage with the Create Staff of Lightning skill may create a Staff of Lightning. A Staff of Lightning allows any mage to call down lightning bolts as if he had Call Lightning skill of 3. A mage has a 20 percent times his level chance to create a Staff of Lightning. To use this spell, CAST Create_Staff_of_Lightning. A unit with this skill may create staves of lightning via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 5, call lightning 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRSL",2,"No skill report."
"CRSL",3,"No skill report."
"CRSL",4,"No skill report."
"CRSL",5,"No skill report."
"CRTA",1,"A mage with the Create Amulet of Tree Seeing skill may create an Amulet of True Seeing. This amulet gives the possessor a bonus of 2 to his effective Observation skill.Also, a unit with an Amulet of True Seeing cannot be assassinated by, nor have items stolen by, a unit with a Ring of Invisibility (Note that the unit must have at least one Amulet of True Seeing per man to repel a unit with a Ring of Invisibility).A mage has a 20 percent times his skill level chance to create an Amulet of True Seeing. To use this spell, CAST Create_Amulet_of_True_Seeing. A unit with this skill may create amulets of true seeing via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 3, true seeing 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRTA",2,"No skill report."
"CRTA",3,"No skill report."
"CRTA",4,"No skill report."
"CRTA",5,"No skill report."
"CRPA",1,"A mage with the Create Amulet of Protection skill may create Amulets of Protection, which grants the possesor a personal Spirit Shield of 3. A mage may create his skill level of these amulets per turn. To use this spell, CAST Create_Amulet_of_Protection. A unit with this skill may create amulets of protection via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 1, spirit shield 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRPA",2,"No skill report."
"CRPA",3,"No skill report."
"CRPA",4,"No skill report."
"CRPA",5,"No skill report."
"CRRU",1,"A mage with the Create Runesword skill may create a Runesword, which when wielded in combat gives the wielder a plus 4 bonus to Combat skill, and also allows the wielder to project an Aura of Fear in battle, as if he had Create Aura of Fear skill of level 3 (provided the wielder is not casting any other combat spells). A mage has a 20 percent times his skill level chance of creating a Runesword. To cast this spell, CAST Create_Runesword. A unit with this skill may create runeswords via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 4, create aura of fear 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRRU",2,"No skill report."
"CRRU",3,"No skill report."
"CRRU",4,"No skill report."
"CRRU",5,"No skill report."
"CRSH",1,"A mage with the Create Shieldstone skill may create Shieldstones, which confers upon the possessor a personal Energy Shield of 3. A mage may create his skill level in Shieldstones per turn. To use this spell, CAST Create_Shieldstone A unit with this skill may create shieldstones via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 3, energy shield 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRSH",2,"No skill report."
"CRSH",3,"No skill report."
"CRSH",4,"No skill report."
"CRSH",5,"No skill report."
"CRMA",1,"A mage with the Create Magic Carpet skill may create Magic Carpets, which provide for flying transportation. A Magic Carpet can carry up to 15 weight units in the air. Casting this spell allows the mage to create his skill level in Magic Carpets. To cast the spell, CAST Create_Magic_Carpet. A unit with this skill may create magic carpets via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 2, weather lore 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CRMA",2,"No skill report."
"CRMA",3,"No skill report."
"CRMA",4,"No skill report."
"CRMA",5,"No skill report."
"ENGR",1,"A mage with the Engrave Runes of Warding may engrave runes of warding on a building; these runes will give any occupants of the building a personal Energy Shield and Spirit Shield, both at level 3. A mage has a 20 percent chance per level of succeeding with each attempt to cast this spell. To use this spell, the mage should CAST Engrave_Runes_of_Warding, and be within the building he wishes to engrave runes upon. This spell costs 600 silver to cast. At level 1, the mage may engrave runes of warding upon a Tower. This skill requires artifact lore 3, energy shield 3, and spirit shield 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"ENGR",2,"At this level, the mage may engrave runes of warding upon a Fort."
"ENGR",3,"No skill report."
"ENGR",4,"At this level, the mage may engrave runes of warding upon a Citadel."
"ENGR",5,"At this level, the mage may engrave runes of warding upon a Magical Fortress, which grants the inhabitants an Energy Shield and Spirit Shield at level 5."
"CGAT",1,"A mage with the Construct Gate skill may construct a Gate in a region. The mage has a 20 percent times his skill level chance of success, and the attempt costs 1000 silver. To use this spell, the mage should issue the order CAST Construct_Gate. This skill requires artifact lore 3, gate lore 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CGAT",2,"No skill report."
"CGAT",3,"No skill report."
"CGAT",4,"No skill report."
"CGAT",5,"No skill report."
"ESWO",1,"A mage with the Enchant Swords skill may magically create mithril swords. A mage may create 5 times his skill level mithril swords per turn. The mage should issue the order CAST Enchant_Swords to cast this spell. A unit with this skill may create mithril swords via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"ESWO",2,"No skill report."
"ESWO",3,"No skill report."
"ESWO",4,"No skill report."
"ESWO",5,"No skill report."
"EARM",1,"A mage with the Enchant Armor skill may magically create mithril armor. A mage may create 5 times his skill level mithril armors per turn. The mage should issue the order CAST Enchant_Armor to cast this spell. A unit with this skill may create mithril armor via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 1 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"EARM",2,"No skill report."
"EARM",3,"No skill report."
"EARM",4,"No skill report."
"EARM",5,"No skill report."
"CPOR",1,"A mage with the Construct Portal skill may construct a Portal for use with the Portal Lore skill. The mage has a 20 percent times his skill level chance of creating a Portal, and the attempt costs 600 silver. To use this spell, CAST Construct_Portal. A unit with this skill may create portals via magic. This skill requires artifact lore 3, portal lore 3 to study. This skill costs 100 silver to study."
"CPOR",2,"No skill report."
"CPOR",3,"No skill report."
"CPOR",4,"No skill report."
"CPOR",5,"No skill report."
"ANIM",1,"This skill deals with all aspects of mount production. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE horses and camels. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"ANIM",2,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE war moles."
"ANIM",3,"No skill report."
"ANIM",4,"No skill report."
"ACRA",1,"The armorcraft skill is an advanced version of the armorsmith skill. This skill requires armorer [ARMO] 5 to begin to study. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"ANIM",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE winged horses. A unit with this skill is able to determine if a region contains winged horses."
"ACRA",3,"No skill report."
"ACRA",2,"No skill report."
"ACRA",4,"No skill report."
"ACRA",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE admantium plate mails."
"WCRA",1,"The weaponcraft skill is an advanced version of the weaponsmith skill. A unit with this skill may PRODUCE lances and pikes. This skill requires weaponsmith [WEAP] 5 to begin to study. This skill costs 10 silver per month of study."
"WCRA",2,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE mithril battle axes."
"WCRA",3,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE admantium swords."
"WCRA",4,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE super bows."
"WCRA",5,"A unit with this skill may PRODUCE admantium battle axes."
